Cardiff Carnival 25th Anniversary Project.
Interviewer Steve Fletcher.
Interviewee Elaine Morse.
The venue is the Swicker office and the date today is Sunday the 16th of November 2014.
Elaine, could you spell your name in full for the record please?
Elaine Morse.
M-O-R-S-E.
Like Inspector.
Thank you very much indeed.
How did you first get to hear of or get involved with the Cardiff Carnival?
Right, well I grew up in Cardiff and left for about 10 years, went to live in Canada
and then came back to Cardiff in about 2000 and was looking for community, you know, reconnect
and meet new people.
Now my mum is a teacher in Glantau High School, she's a textiles teacher there and she said
hey, go down to Swicker, it's happening, the camp is opening, starting for the carnival
in July and I'm not sure, that might have been 2000, summer 2000 and that's how it started.
I came when it was here at Chapter in the little next door.
The gym?
The gym is what we call it, when the camp was there, it was plastic all over the floor
and all the tables got set up and paint started flying around and I came to help with costume
and Kevin arrived and they started starting and I said, I'd love to learn stilt work.
In about three minutes he said, go on then, strapped onto me, sat on a high wall, he
said one, two, three, up, right, walk, go on, go.
Was that it?
That's the science of I'm still walking, demystified.
And that was it, like keep going, you've got to keep moving, tick, tock, tick, tock, keep
walking nice and slow and relax.
And that was it.
Did he take you up Thompson Park?
We went straight for a walk up Thompson's Park and it was hilarious, crossing the crossroad,
we felt like giraffes and zebras and he went running up the bank, the grass bank and I
was maybe not on my first go.
And we did, we went for a walk.
Can you remember what your first costume was then?
Blimey.
I can't, I can't remember.
Something red and black.
We'll have to have a look at the pictures and see what was the red and black in sort
of weird baskets.
We'll find them, we'll find them, we'll go through them.
So in terms of the different characters you played, did you have a favourite?
Which one sticks in your mind?
Or do you have any affection for?
I think it was 2004.
There we go, spirit, spirit of Mother Earth.
I went back to university after I'd come back to Cardiff and 2004 was when I graduated
so I had this weird bird, golden bird outfit that I'd made for one of my projects at uni
and I got to wear that and so that's my favourite one because I, well I got to put more time
into it because it's quite short and intense to make costume at camp isn't it?
Oh God absolutely.
And they're like, it's like, ah, intensive.
And how about the parade days itself, what are your memories of those?
What was they like?
Ah, the arriving in the morning and getting everybody ready and everybody making each
other up and everybody dressing each other and it's all massive community and bonding
and excitement and nervousness and it was wonderful.
Really, really wonderful, spot on in terms of that heart, that community, all ages, all
the disabilities, everybody, just everybody mucking in together helping with everything.
In terms of the reaction from the great unwashed Cardiff public, how do you feel they supported
the parade?
Oh gosh, I remember one of them that I think camp was down at the Squaw down the bay.
That was one of the camps I went to and the parade then went from the school, went through
the bay and then, I'm not quite sure, oh yeah then into the Oval Basin, it was quite a short
parade but it was such a boiling hot summer, it was absolutely rammed and all the people
were just packed together and it just made it feel really, really full and the response
was just lovely, really amazing.
I loved that one most so it just went from the school very slow and intense and packed
and then ended up in the Basin with our dancing in the Basin.
You just have a big stage and the rest of it too, even a headliner, could have been
Testament Decker, Jimmy Cliff, I mean some of the reggae.
Could have been, I can't remember who, but there was that either.
And the statement after the parade.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Did you have to cross the stage on stilts?
Because there were times when we put the parade over the stage and each section got announced
and applauded and things like that.
The times that I did it was when the parade would stop in the Oval Basin was the big showpiece
and of course everybody was around in the Oval Basin, like that amphitheatre and there
was a, you know, that circle was held as the stage inside the Basin.
Yes, yes, yes.
Yeah, it's all coming back to me, almost as if I was there.
I was, I remember that, I remember that.
So you did a number of years as a stilt walker, a bit of a sad ending to this story, isn't there?
A little bit.
What happened?
I went on holiday with an art group.
We went to Krakow to see some art with all the six performers and we had a couple of
days in the mountains skiing and I had a big skiing accident, smashed my knee to bits
and it's too weak to stilt walk now because stilt walking is quite hard on the knees.
Yeah, so I stopped and I need to donate my stilts to Swee Care.
That's very sweet of you, well accept them with open arms.
There's two pairs, ones that I made at college for that EMA when I was in college.
I did D&T so I had all the tools and equipment ready there and I made them in the holidays.
Got it.
I made peg stilts and I have some plaster stilts so I'll bring them.
Wow, that's really sweet of you indeed.
Given that we reconnected when I saw you in the sewing place around the corner, we never
changed you to a sewing machine.
You escaped that fake worst of death.
That's very clever of you if you don't mind me sewing so.
Costume is what I do for a living and I think it was the best mentality.
And to help with other things.
Yeah, I think that's important.
Yeah, well and you already had your staff in place with Jude and that was my year when
she was headmaker.
Got it.
Ben and Jude, well Ben and Jude was headmasters.
Do you see them when they come down?
Yeah, I saw them.
I put blind-av on, they were up there doing some bits of projects.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And Frank Clown, he was there doing his performance.
I don't know if he does stuff with Sweeca.
But Ben and Jude and Ola, their little girl.
She's beautiful.
Yeah, yeah.
And Ben is swimming the channel.
In stages.
Oh, it's in stages.
Okay.
This is a Facebook chat there, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
This is the length of the channel in laps of a pool.
Not in one go.
Oh, it's not in the channel.
No.
Because that's what I thought first of all.
Oh, look at me thinking.
No, I thought that because I thought how very David Williams.
Thinking Ironman channel swim.
He's doing it over time.
But it's still respectful.
Respect.
Absolutely.
You bet.
Either way, Elaine, thank you very much for your powerful memories.
We shall treasure those.
We shall keep them for future generations.
Well, Steve, thank you so much for my carnival experiences.
Thank you for the studs to come.
They're coming.
They're in the garage.